# Radhika.GitHub.io
Welcome to my Website for BDA594!

## DATASET - NASDAQ

[Link to NASDAQ's dataset](https://data.nasdaq.com/)
<br>
<br>
NASDAQ is one of the biggest markets in the American stock exchange. Undoubtedly, There are incredibly high volume of transactions taking place each second. And hence one could imagine how massive could be the volumes of data generated by NASDAQ. This dataset is publicly available and there is an ample variety of this data available on their website. 
<br>
Datasets variety include, but not are not limited to:
<li> Stocks</li>
<li> Currencies</li>
<li> Interest Rates</li>
<li> Mutual Funds & ETFs</li>
<li> Cryptocurrency</li>
<li> Options</li>

# Potential Applications of NASDAQ's datasets

<li>Application of this dataset can be mainly seen in domains of financial and marketing world. </li>
<li>The datasets of a particular equity's price can help develop a trend to predict which stock can help us achieve more profits and which ones might lead to losses. </li> 
<li>It can also help predict the type of mutual fund, like small, mid or large cap mutual funds which generates more money to the client as opposed to the date and time of the year.</li>
<li> It can give an overview of which country or region is trading more and what type of transactions are people making on a daily basis to keep track of patterns and develop insights based on the same.</li>

# 'The Promise and Peril of Big Data' by David Bollier, Rapporteur (The Aspen Institute)

Here's a [Link to the Book](https://www.aspeninstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/files/content/docs/pubs/The_Promise_and_Peril_of_Big_Data.pdf)
### Book review and why it interested me:

<p>We all know how data is an invaluable source and has various methods to analyse it in order to helpful to the mankind. But little do we know how does it affect the intercultural and relational qualities between the user and their personal spaces. This book seemed interesting to me because of the twitter news which was shared in the class, about how internet can know something even before an individual! This seemed crazy and I wanted to explore further how data can be a peril in the society. Knowing how the datasets are used against an individual or without seeking the correct rights would help me know how to avoid falling a trap to such situations. It could also help a good data scientist in procuring the rights from the user and updating the privacy policies and using them correctly in limits. </p>

<p>Companies use data mining method to extract user information which lets them know so much more about you than even your best friend. This data is used against you to offer you product ads and related service ads which is beneficial for the profits of the company. Now this is unethical from a point that you are being spied upon all the time and each activity you do is an asset for the businesses. But again, it is also the right of the user to let only a part of data being shared and keep the rest private or keep all their data private. Even after disclaimers and accepting or rejecting the privacy policies, the companies still come to know what you are upto. This is data breach because even though you might have restricted some information sharing from one app but they can correlate and find out what you are still upto. This is one major peril of data.</p>
<p>
In this way, even though data is of prime significance to create an impact in the society, data can also be misused and abused to make big bucks by the large corporations. Hence the author states an amazing quote in the book: </p>

> ...The more data there is, the better my chances of finding the 'generators' for a new theory.
> -John Seely Brown


















